.. _c6:

CHAPTER 6 Troubleshooting
===============================

The perfect design approach doesn’t guarantee that everything will go flawlessly
in production. One engineer I worked with was fond of saying,“I’m not happy
’til ten thousand pieces have gone down the line okay.” I’ve seen tolerance problems appear in production after half a million pieces have been run. It is very
difficult to predict and prevent something like that.

The fact is, the more thoroughly you try to analyze a design, the longer you will
be waiting to produce it, but if a product never gets into production, no one
gets paid (except in government work, of course). So, a balance needs to be
struck among design analysis, testing, and production runs. This being the case,
you will likely be faced with trying to determine a production problem at some
point in your career. How will you go about it? What approach will you take?
Hopefully this chapter will give you some ideas.

GETTING READY FOR THE HUNT
---------------------------

As we discuss the topic of finding trouble and shooting it, I will often refer to
my own experiences. I am sure you will have unique and often completely different results. The idea here isn’t to tell you what the problem is in your design
but to give you some guidelines you can use to troubleshoot the problem
yourself.

Shotgun Wedding
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We will get into the interesting section header a bit later. Though it might seem
a little out of order, I think we should cover one item first because it is so
important to the rest of the process. The first rule of thumb is: Don’t discount
a theory (no matter how obvious or ridiculous it might seem). Try to prove it
right or wrong by experiment and then move on to the next idea. Too often
you will be carrying an assumption that you won’t even realize can lead you
to a wrong conclusion. It is vitally important that you have a process to check
and validate a theory. Without that, you will be forever jumping from one idea
to another without ever coming to a conclusion. With that said, let’
s move on.

